---
layout: post
title:  "Week 4"
date:   2015-11-20 18:00:00
categories: galvanize
---
Week 4 wrapped up the frontend portion of our Galvanize fullstack program.

##Week 4:
Week 4 added essential tools to our frontend dev quiver. 

###Forms
We started the week off by dissecting HTML forms and incorporating validation techniques. As future web developers it is very easy to imagine spending an obscene amount of time working on HTML forms and form validation -- since 9/10 times user information is collect via a form.

###Networking: 
Inching closer and closer to our next section -- the backend -- we went over the basics of understanding the web on a deeper (albeit relatively shallow) level. The goal was to understand the networking processes from the time a user typed in a website domain to having the browser display the webpage. I go into slightly more detain in my post about [How the Internet Works](http://galvanizefullstack.com/networks/internet/learning/2015/11/10/the-internet.html).

###AJAX
When a browser encounters a `<script>` tag, generally it will stop processing the page until the script has been loaded. This is call **synchronous Javascript and XML. AJAX is short for **asynchronous Javascript and XML**. AJAX uses an asynchronous processing model. This means that the user or browser can do other things while the browser is waiting for data to load -- improving speed and the user experience. AJAX is commonly seen in live (autocomplete) searches, live shopping cart updates, live screen name validation, etc.

###APIs
APIs are hot right now. They have changed the way that computer programs talk to each other and drastically increased the speed of software development and innovation. API stands for Application Program Interface. Broadly speaking APIs are a way for computers to request and receive that information based on a defined protocol. They allow access to a piece of internal data in a controlled manner. 

It might sound like a library, right? It's sort of a remote library. The difference is that APIs are routes, not stored on your machine. A library lives on your browser. An API doesn't need to be installed. APIs allow companies to build a uniform interface to communicate with data on multiple platforms. Large companies like Facebook, Google Maps, Yelp, etc., allow smaller applications to utilize their data ("sign on with Google") via APIs.

###Local Storage
Local storage is a powerful tool for modern web developers to store data without the need of a server or database. It is also way to persist data between browser sessions -- keep user preferences or keep a user logged in between browser sessions. You don't have to incur network I/O. Local storage is specific to the URL that you visit.

A fairly good introduction to local storage: [Smashing Magazine: Local Storage and How to Use It On Websites](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/10/local-storage-and-how-to-use-it/)  by [Christian Heilmann](https://twitter.com/codepo8).

###Deployment with GitHub Pages

[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) makes deploying a website incredibly easy. Hosting is handled directly via a GitHub repository. All you need to do is edit, push, and your changes are processed! I use GitHub pages to hosted this blog!