---
layout: post
title:  "SQL"
date:   2015-12-14 20:20:00
categories: SQL
---
What is a relational database?

Relational databases have been around for years and **SQL** (Structured Query Language) is the language used to manipulate them. 

#SQL

It is easy to think of a relational database as similar to an Excel spreadsheet, containing a value corresponding to a column and a row. 

###Tables
A table holds the data in a database and allows it to easily be retrieved. 

##Retrieving data from our database
A `SELECT` statement is needed to get information for a SQL database.

####SELECT Structure 
`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in];` *All SQL statements must end in a semicolon

You can add any number of columns to the `SELECT` recipe. `*` returns **all** columns.

####WHERE Structure
`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] WHERE [the match case];`

`WHERE` statements allow us to return a more refined set of data. 

A `WHERE` statement will also allow us to search for a string of data: `SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] WHERE [column = 'string'];` **You will need to use SINGLE QUOTES when doing these searches**

##Sorting data
The **ORDER BY** clause can be used to sort data in a defined way.

`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] ORDER BY [which way to view the data];`

When sorting the data, only the `SELECT` data is returned based on the `ORDER BY` parameters. Naturally the `ORDER BY` parameter will return information in an ascending order. To switch the order to descending, add `DESC` to the end of the `ORDER BY` statement.

###Comparing data using comparison operators
Comparison operators can be used to specify data results.

####Comparison Structure
`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] WHERE [comparison field] [>, <, =, >=, <=, <>] [comparison field];`

**The `<>` operator stands of 'not equals to'.**

###Filtering multiple conditions
We can use the `AND` operator to filter multiple conditions.

####AND Structure
`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] WHERE [the match case] AND [additional matching case];`

**BOTH** conditions must be met when using an `AND` statement.

###Selecting data with different conditions
The `OR` operator can filter multiple conditions.

`SELECT [column or columns] FROM [table the data is located in] WHERE [the match case] OR [additional matching criteria];`

Either criteria can be met to return data. 

##Adding Data
To add data to a table in SQL, we use an `INSERT` statement.

####INSERT Structure
`INSERT INTO [the table the data is in] ([the column we want to add to]) VALUES (data values separated by commas]);`
 
You don't necessarily need to add the column you want to add to.

`INSERT INTO [the table the data is in] 
 VALUES (data values separated by commas]);`
 
 The above statement is quicker to code and would work as well.
 
###The Primary Key
The primary key is a unique identifier in a table. A primary key column cannot have NULL or duplicate values.

SQL can automatically increment the primary key for a table for new rows.

## Updating data
To change table data in SQL, use an `UPDATE` statement.

####UPDATE Structure
`UPDATE [table data is in] SET [column name] = [the value needed to change the column to];`

You have the option of adding a `WHERE` clause to the end of the `UPDATE` statement to pinpoint the update. Without the `WHERE` statement the entire column will be updated. You can also change multiple rows at once by adding an `OR` statement to the `WHERE` statement.

##Removing data
To remove data from a table, use a `DELETE` statement.

####DELETE Structure
`DELETE FROM [table data is in] WHERE [pinpoint deletion parameters];`

We can use comparison operators to delete multiple rows.

##Creating/Deleting a new database
Creating a new database in SQL is very easy -- use a `CREATE DATABASE` statement.

####CREATE DATABASE Structure
`CREATE DATABASE [database name];`

Removing a database is called **dropping** a database. 